# Starcraft-Player-Analysis-
Analyzing data and attempt to predict player league placement.

StarCraft is a game that has long been dear to me. I am too young to have gotten into StarCraft 1, but StarCraft 2 was my portal into the PC gaming world. I remember my excitement when I first watched my sister’s husband play the game when I was much younger. I had to stop playing the game since it was too stressful and energy consuming. I only ever reached the rank of Diamond (rank 4 in this dataset), but got close to becoming masters. Since I have knowledge of the skills that are required to become good at StarCraft 2, I thought it would be interesting to analyse StarCraft 1 data.

StarCraft is both a game of tactics and speed. To excel at StarCraft, you must become a master of both. StarCraft is a game of limited information. Each player must gather information about the strategy of your opponent and react accordingly, while trying to catch your opponent off guard with your own strategy. At the same time, you must be fast enough to keep up with what your opponent is doing. Fights can be decided within seconds and your whole economy ruined just as quickly. For this reason, you need to be constantly ready for a attack from your opponent and have to divide your attention to multiple fronts at the same time. 

In this data set we have multiple variables that attempts to measure the speed of each player. APM (Actions Per Minute) and action latency are direct measures of this. The minimap is an essential tool to register attacks coming your way and jumping between different fronts of attack and your economy. Variables such as "Minimap Right Clicks" attempts to measure how good players are at using their minimap. In StarCraft, every owned building or unit may be assigned to a hotkey group. Hotkeys are useful for quickly selecting the units and buildings you need and making actions without having to move your camera, which also saves time. Any good player is expected to use multiple hotkeys. “AssignToHotkeys” measures how many units that are assigned to a given hotkey per timestamp, while “UniqueHotkeys” measures how many unique hotkeys each player uses. 
